[MUSIC]
>> Aaron Frost: I've got this let class,
okay, and I've got a generator in it.
let.js has a generator in it,
don't ask me why.
So you wanna use a generator, but
you need it to compile into a language
that even ES5 could speak, right?
Because you have to support Legacy, okay?
Cool, so I've got this generator
class that's gonna do this code, and
I want to compile it with Traceur now.
So let me show you how to
get Traceur installed.
>> Aaron Frost: Can you
guys see this okay?
That too big?
Okay, I'm gonna see into source and
cd es, okay.
So the first thing you gonna do
is say npm install -g traceur.
Okay so it just goes out and
global installs the Traceur utility for
your computer.
They threw it on npm even though it's,
yeah.
So yeah, there you go, that's Traceur.
So now from the command line you've got,
>> Aaron Frost: Traceur, so
you can do Traceur things from
the command line now, okay.
And it's got a huge health file, to kinda
guide you through what it's gonna do.
And if you have any questions,
there's a lot of help out there online.
So a lot of people using it.
And there's a bunch of
flags you can give it,
like if you wanted to not use for-of's.
You can say for-of = --four-of = false,
--classes true, stuff like that.
Okay, so you can include experimental
stuff, you can include block binding.
Anyway, there's a lot of
stuff that you can do.
So we've got this lead.jsk and
I'm gonna go ahead and
compile this into a generator
real quick using Traceur.
So let's clear this out.
So I'm gonna say traceur,
I want you to write my out into
samples.temp.let.tcr.js, okay?
And the script is samples.let.js, okay?
So everyone see what I did there?
I'm gonna hit Enter.
Aw, I hate live coding but
when it works, how good does that feel?
>> Students: [LAUGH]
>> Aaron Frost: My gosh, I was so worried.
Okay, so now over here we've got this
temp directory, where we've got let.,
let's delete that guy
cuz he's just confusing.
So we've got this thing
that I just created, and
you're like wow, it made all that for
a frigging generator?
Well yeah, there's no Traceur
makes generator work in ES5 okay.
So this is what Traceur's all about.
It's about making it so you can write
ES6 and have it run in ES5 Lant, okay?
So there's a problem though and that is,
like this line by itself, like let's say
that this line, this file represented all
of my code from all like all my libraries.
I compiled it all into one line.
I don't have the Traceur runtime, so
when it tries to say $traceurRuntime
do all these crazy thing,
it's gonna actually freak out.
So you guys are good.
Are you guys gonna believe
I actually just forgot
the flag to include the runtime,
let's try it.
Include runtime, gosh.
>> Aaron Frost: Hold on.
>> Aaron Frost: What the heck?
>> Aaron Frost: To knife like
a total putz, what is the thing?
>> Speaker 3: Are you
talking about the map files?
>> Aaron Frost: No not the source maps,
I don't care about
the source maps right now.
I can show you source maps, but
it needs to include the Runtime so that-
>> Speaker 4: Put it in your index.html?
>> Aaron Frost: You can throw
it in your index.html but
you can also have the build tool
put it in there for you, right.
>> Speaker 4: Okay.
>> Aaron Frost: So you're gonna
need to put it on your page anyway.
But if you don't have it,
like if you haven't copied it in,
you can make your tool copy it in for you.
So, what is it?
My gosh.
Someone is gonna like look at this and
laugh at me.
Anyway, okay, sorry it's not important.
That's how you compile it.
But we kind of need a more programmatic
approach, like we're not gonna sit here
and write command lines,
like commands to compile our stuff, right?
So I'm gonna show you guys grunt-traceur,
if that's okay.
So, if we say gihub, and
we're gonna say grunt-traceur.
So, grunt-traceur is awesome.
There's also a gulp traceur and
then there's EF6FI also can do traceur.
But, essentially how you run it,
it's actually pretty easy.
So let me go ahead and
open up a sample project I created.
So we're gonna do this grunt-tracer test.
So we have this let stuff here and
we have my generators.
And we have a my generator and we want it
to compile into this ES5 directory, okay,
each one of them.
So I made this grunt file.
Who here is familiar with Grunt?
We have some people familiar with that,
that's good.
>> Aaron Frost: Okay,
I'll just minimize this.
So you have to add this traceur
config to your new config.
And so I'm gonna say includeRuntime,
use commonjs modules,
have blockBinding: true and
experimental: true.
And for those who are kinda paying
attention, when we ran Traceur
from the command line and it showed
us all the flags, those are options.
So you can use those same options in here
in the Grunt plugin, it will go ahead and
break them out for you.
And then, so here's my build,
is my custom build.
So I'm gonna say from the current
working directory which is JavaScript,
take everything that's .js and
write it into the ES5 directory,
a Traceur version of itself.
So from here we can say
grunt-traceurcustom and
it tells us,
I don't know if you guys can see this,
sorry, my terminal in
WebStorm's kinda small.
It tells me that it compiled let,
that it compiled my generator and
if we come up here and we look in the ES5
directory, it went ahead and compiled it.
So because I compiled them into
separate files, it went ahead and
it included the runtime in both of
them which is kinda lame, right?
So let's go back to our grunt file, and
say just go ahead or
write all of them to the same file.
So let's just say destination is app.js.
We'll run it again, okay, bollocks.
>> Aaron Frost: Sure.
>> Aaron Frost: Is that
what they're gonna do?
>> Aaron Frost: Anyway,
I'm kind of freaking out here on site,
cuz we're overdoing,
I'm trying to hurry and get it done.
But using grunt-traceur this
is how you do it and you,
if you guys are like hey I'm
gonna do this on my own projects,
you'd make sure you have
all the flags turned on.
If you have something that's
not working you'd like,
well generators isn't working so
we're gonna take it out or
I really want classes so
make sure classes is turned on.
You can turn source maps on so that if you
get an error inline like in this wonky
looking code that it builds out for
you, no one wants to debug this, right.
This looks really scary.
We can turn on source maps and so if
there's ever an error, you click on it and
it takes you back to your original code.
So it makes it easier to troubleshoot.
So make sure you get
source maps turned on, but
you can actually have Traceur
as part of your build process.
And I'm guessing one day once everything's
solidified more and Traceur's stronger,
this is what most frameworks will do,
is have a Traceur build as
part of their build step.
So you guys got an introduction to
Traceur, go ahead and try to out on your
own time though, write some simple stuff
like we wrote today after each section and
try and get Traceur to to
build into a file for you.